# Almir Books

A cloud application to store and manage a database of books. Frontend is a react application which interfaces with a REST API generated by php. 

## Security
The front-end is protected via a username and password ( password encryption being used ) The backend database ( api endpoints ) are protected via JWT web tokens. Unauthorised users cannot interface with the data without a valid signed token which is generated when the user successfully logs in. Please not JWT is disabled on the demo link above due to restrictions by the hosting provider.

## Extensible & Scalable
The core application structure is broken up to facilitate expanding feature requirements and makes debugging and maintenance easier by not repeating the same code time and again. 

## Responsive
Using react, content is managed by a virtual DOM and only updated to view ( the real DOM ) when changes are made to the data. This ensures a smooth and efficient use of resources as well as ensuring data is always up to date when the user is viewing it not requiring a page refresh. 
 

## Installation

Use the package manager npm to install

```bash
npm install
```

Build the project 
```bash
npm run build
```

Run Locally
```bash
npm start
```

Start php server
```bash
php -S localhost:8080
```


## Database

MySQL database

Contains two tables: `Books` and `Users`

Table structure for table `Books`
```bash
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS `Books` (
  `ID` int(11) NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
  `title` varchar(255) NOT NULL,
  `author` varchar(255) NOT NULL,
  `ISBN` varchar(255) NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (`ID`),
  UNIQUE KEY `IBAN` (`ISBN`)
) ENGINE=InnoDB  DEFAULT CHARSET=latin1 AUTO_INCREMENT=37 ;
```
Table structure for table `Users`
```bash
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS `Users` (
  `id` int(11) NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
  `first_name` varchar(150) NOT NULL,
  `last_name` varchar(150) NOT NULL,
  `email` varchar(255) DEFAULT NULL,
  `password` varchar(255) DEFAULT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (`id`)
) ENGINE=InnoDB  DEFAULT CHARSET=latin1 AUTO_INCREMENT=2 ;

```
